In this video, I'm going to cover
some good habits for writing awesome catch clauses in your promises,
as well as look at some general ways that we can
handle errors that are in our JavaScript programs.
This is super important because the better your error handling is,
the faster you can isolate a problem and get on with the fix.
First off, there's a secret about catch statements that we haven't covered yet.
You can actually write a then clause off of a catch.
This means that we can handle errors with
the same attention to detail as we do successes.
Here's an example of a promise chain we used earlier in the course,
but with better error handling added to the catch statements.
Errors in JavaScript have many properties that we can use to create custom error actions.
First of all, errors have types.
You can find the type of an error by looking at its name property.
An error we throw will have a generic error type,
but an error that JavaScript throws,
will have a type such as ReferenceError or TypeError.
The message of a JavaScript error is held in the message property.
In this example, I'm going to show you how to deal
with custom errors that we throw on purpose,
as well as system errors thrown by JavaScript.
First, I have this reference to an undeclared variable.
JavaScript will throw an error here and the catch clause will run.
You can see that here I'm actually printing
a custom console log if a certain error happens.
We can see that custom console log happening here.
If I get rid of that error though,
and instead throw a custom error,
you can see that I handle that in a separate section of the catch clause.
Here I am throwing an error and always passing the array as the message.
Anything you pass to the message of an error will get turned into a string.
In my catch clause,
I can check what the string contains.
Based on what data is included in the array,
I can tell what stage this promise failed at.
For my own debugging benefit,
I then concatenate the step where the error occurred with the error message.
When we run the code,
you can see that my custom error message is printed. Neat, right?
It shows just how much detail you can use to handle errors in your app.
This is an amazing superpower when you're building apps.
Let's take a minute to discuss why error handling is so important.
One question you might be asking yourself is,
why should I try so hard catching errors if all I ever do is console log them?
That's one problem I see with many JavaScript programs.
Oftentimes, errors are just console logged,
which is fine in development or for developers,
but the user can't see your logged error messages.
The really important question is,
what do your users experience when the program counters and error?
How do you translate that error to them?
Do you prompt them for what to do next or guide them to an error-free page?
In web development, this process of handling
errors gracefully is called exception handling.
Exception handling means writing code in such a way as to
allow programs to handle errors in a way that's beneficial,
or without crashing or becoming unusable.
In order for an app or a website to feel solid for users,
you need to have good exception handling.
Imagine the users of your app for a moment.
If you were to print the message you get in a console logged error to the user,
it probably wouldn't help them much.
We can parse an error to make it prettier and more useful to someone using our app.
You saw some examples of how we could do this in
the code example when we created custom error messages.
It would be much more helpful to alert a custom error message to the user,
than to print the reference error text we saw.
That is what exception handling is all about.
Good exception handling will make our programs easier for developers to debug,
easier for users to understand,
and more resilient to problems that might otherwise make it crash.